cacheSim
========

A Cache Simulator for a Microprocessor Architecture Coursework.

Simulates both direct mapped cache or set associative of 2,4 or 8 ways.


# Written in Python for version 2.7.5+
# Developed and tested with Python 2.7.5
# Should work with Python 3+
#
# Short note on Pythonic OOP:
# By design, Python does not support Private methods.
# However, any method prepended with an underscore
# indicates an internal method. The interpreter does not
# react to this, but is in place so that internal methods are not
# accidentally accessed, as one would have to break convention of
# using an underscored method from outside the class.
#
# Microprocessor Architecture Coursework 2: Cache Simulator
# Based on a simple Von Neumann Architecture
# using CPU instructions located by default
# in trace file "trace.txt"
# Generates Log File "cache.log" provided by Python logging library
#
# BASIC OPERATION:
# Two thread based classes: 'CacheSim' and 'CpuSim'
# CpuSim reads the tracefile into memory and sends them to global FIFO
# Queue object 'instructionQueue'.
#
# CacheSim pops the first item off the queue before simulating the
# function of a cache, as defined by the input parameters.
# This process will be repeated until the Queue is empty, at which point
# the program will exit.
#
# LOG FILE:
# The log file will by default be set to INFO verbosity. However, DEBUG
# messages may be displayed also by changing the logging value to:
# 'level = logging.DEBUG'.
#
# By default, each run of the simulator will clear the logfile and
# overwrite it. If this is not desired, you must change the filemode
# from 'W' (write) to 'R' (read).
#
# Each log entry it prepended with the level (i.e. INFO, DEBUG, WARNING or ERROR)
# followed by the 'branch'. For this project, all branches are 'root'.
# Log entries generated by the a thread will also include the thread name,
# either CPUSIM or CACHESIM for the respective threads.
#
# After this will be the message. A cache HIT will be signified by 'HIT!',
# and ANY cache misses signified with 'MISS'.
# In debug mode, addresses may be represented in their hex form,
# as this is how they have been read in.
# Most logging outputs will refer to binary information in the
# integer form, including index and tag values.
#
# If a value has not been assigned, the pythonic type 'None' will be
# allocated as there is nothing to assign. Please consider that in a real
# system, this may just be an invalid or garbled value containted in
# memory that has no functional value.
